## Chapter 4: Hello World!

In the previous chapter we used numbers to check if the door we created was open or closed.<br>
Why not a simple boolean I hear some folks asking? Simple: The only available data types in YOLOL are 
**numbers** (integers and decimals) and **strings** (a list of characters).<br>
So in reality using `false` and `true` means nothing other than trying to assign something to a field, 
however **not** a boolean.

>**Step #1**<br>
>To get to some coding, write `var="Hello!"` into the first line and try running it!

>###### SNIPPET

As you will see, a local variable called `var` will be initialised with the value `Hello!`.
Now let's try and add another word to the string using **string operations**.<br>
String operations will manipulate an existing string to add or remove parts to/ from it.
More about operators and their usage in the [official documentation](https://wiki.starbasegame.com/index.php/YOLOL#Basic_arithmetic_and_assignment_operators)!

>**Step #2:**<br>
>Write `var+="World!"` into the second line and execute the snippet!<br>

>###### SNIPPET
> var="Hello!"

As you may have noticed, the resulting string has an excess questionmark in between the two words. Why?

The operator `+=` appends or adds something to the specified variable. It does not replace or remove characters, thus the questionmark after `Hello` remains. 
An easy fix would obviously be to change `var` to just `Hello` before doing anything with it, but that would be boring! Here we can introduce another operator: `--`

>**Step #3:**<br>
>Write `var--` in between the two lines and let the snippet run again!

>###### SNIPPET
> var="Hello!"<br>
> var+="World!"
>

As you see, there's still a space missing in between the words. I'll leave that one for you to figure out though!

>**Step #4:**<br>
>Try to get a space in between the two words!

>###### SNIPPET
> var="Hello!"<br>
> var--<br>
> var+="World!"
>

|[Previous Chapter](c3.md)|[Next Chapter](c5.md)|
|:-:|:-:|
